hey what's up just got back from writing
my final exam on Russia in history and
politics an exam that was held from 7
p.m. till 9 p.m. on a Saturday night two
other universities on planet Earth have
exams on a Saturday night that's really
strange to me this is not night school
very very peculiar anyway I thought I
would address a misconception that I've
heard from a few different people a few
different ways about this channel and
about me I guess I am NOT on here
advocating that people should only
narrowly talk about veganism and I kind
of get complaints both ways from my fans
I do get people complaining if this
channel ever talks about something other
than veganism and I also get people sort
of complaining and just questioning
about going off topic about is it
positive is it permissible is it good
for veganism as a movement or for us as
individuals on YouTube to go off the
script off topic and engage with totally
unrelated issues or tangentially related
issues so I find that peculiar given the
the stuff of talked about on this
channel one of the main things I'm known
for talking about although I guess it's
it's about a year ago that I first
started talking about it so some people
may not have seen was that I was asking
the question of why do these vegans who
go to Thailand take no interest in other
social issues in Thailand notably the
military dictatorship the collapse of
democracy prostitution human trafficking
poverty disease malaria anything I am
and my point was I was open mind it was
like well it's really weird to me that
there's a lack of interest from these
vegans in the world that said the window
or anything in life more substantive
than wearing your bikini going swimming
etc so that was a very broad complained
about the shallowness of the vegan
discourse as it was coming back from
Thailand but I was totally open minded
and positive that people should in
general engage with whatever issues they
they care about they know about or that
they're learning about right now I know
a lot more today about Russian politics
in this
than I knew three months ago or six
months ago I especially know a lot more
about the history of Sakhalin Island let
me tell you Cullen Island is so far east
that it's much closer to Japan than it
is to any inhabited part of Russia I'm
still learning new things all the time
and I like to challenge myself by
talking about things that I've just
learned or that I'm still passionate
about still learning about I don't
define this channel narrowly as being
about veganism at all and that's why if
you look at the front page for this
YouTube channel it doesn't say all about
veganism it's about my life but what's
going on with me as I continue to grow
and adapt as a as a scholar and as an
intellectual when I moved here to
Victoria I had absolutely zero expertise
in Japan I have considerable expertise
in places like Cambodia Laos Thailand
you nan but Japan was a totally unknown
country to me and totally unknown
language and I was learning new things
from page one of that book I have
sometimes warned against vegans talking
about things and taking opinions and
things taking positions on issues they
know nothing about it's like well if
we're going to talk about the Israeli
Palestine conflict how much do we as
individuals know about that how much
time you actually put into researching
it or what have you
I'm obviously a in general though I
encourage people to talk about whatever
they're passionate about and I hope that
that passion brings you into doing some
original research I don't think I've
seen a single vegan on YouTube discuss
or even mention the civil war in Syria
now that's an example something I do not
have expertise on not at all though I
did study political Esther Syria a
little bit back in about 1999 and I do
watch the events unfolding and I
probably know more than the average
person in Canada about the Syrian civil
war may not be saying much but I mean I
am interested and you know emotionally
as well as intellectually it's something
I am really concerned about I remember
back in 2011 when
the Civil War was first starting I heard
an intelligent guy on the radio making
some comments as you just say he was not
a politician he was not a he was not a
scholar or a specialist but he was an
American guy who had lived his life back
and forth between United States and
Syria and had first-hand knowledge of
both he was a Syrian American who really
you know his whole life had one foot in
each country and I remember I actually
broke down weeping briefly I wept
hearing him on the radio he was talking
in a down-to-earth blunt way that he
expected in the next year 40,000 people
were gonna die and his his perspective
was he basically was saying it would be
worth it he was saying that you know
democracy doesn't come for free and you
know there's a price in blood and you
know he accepted that now why did that
bring up various emotions in me well if
you've been watching this channel I'm
someone who's done a lot of research on
different wars revolutions and conflicts
around the world and you know a lot of
thoughts went through my head in hearing
him say that and hearing the whole tone
and tenor of his acceptance of death on
the scale of tens of thousands but I
remember in that moment thinking well
what if it's not 40,000 what if it's
80,000 what if it's 160,000 and what if
when we get to that point of 80,000
160,000 dead what if you still don't
have democracy what if you still have a
dictatorship and no hope what happens
then and you know again that's that
wasn't even really based on my knowledge
of Syria specifically but it's based on
a knowledge of many terrible internecine
conflicts in history of the world and
today this is 2016
I remember it hit me the emotional
impact really hit me when that conflict
passed the 200,000 dead mark we are now
about a quarter of a million were
probably above 250,000 dead in the
Syrian civil war and
you know some estimates are higher and
there's no telling where it's gonna stop
and there's very little hope for it
ending with democracy discuss I mean you
know I care I know a little bit more
than the average pedestrian but it's not
my topic to speak on I've just mentioned
during this year I've done a hell of a
lot of research on Sakhalin Island Japan
politics of China you know in general
politics of Southeast Asia East Asia and
so on has been my area of expertise
I'm trying to build new areas of
expertise I'm now going back to learning
Chinese so the Syrian civil war isn't
for me to speak on but more broadly and
generally do I encourage vegans to talk
about you know issues other than
veganism yes absolutely
I encourage the hell out of it I've been
on this channel been encouraging people
to talk about anything real and I've
often said like in reference to people
like freelee and durianrider I'd say
like the only thing about their channel
I can appreciate is when they're talking
about something really real to them that
they really know like it freely is
talking about what it was like to be a
waitress how she disliked being a
cocktail waitress with a job like to me
that's good content that's quality
content and I mean I'd encourage anyone
to make that kind of content about your
life but yeah ultimately I'd love to see
more material here in the vegan
intellectual demi-monde that reflects
socio-political reality in Syria and
Thailand and Cambodia or anywhere else
to me that is all built into this
concept of keeping it real which is
admittedly a turn of phrase I say too
often because I listen to too much rap
music with that side I don't mean it
sincerely
this whole keeping a real thing to go
just a little bit broader and deeper on
this issue I also think it's interesting
in general how much my videos are
misunderstood by my core audience you
know not by trolls or people popping in
or out but including people who've now
been listening to me talk for years
our legal two years whatever but still
and you know if you think about for
people who are longtime viewers of this
channel some of you have heard my voice
for more than three hours more than six
hours you probably have friends in your
life you've never listened to talk for
six hours people you consider your
friends but you haven't let's do that
much and this type of really fundamental
misunderstanding of what I'm about what
I'm advocating you just what I have to
say I don't think it reflects the
complexity of the ideas I'm getting
across to be honest most of what I'm
imparting or discussing this channel is
dirt simple and very sincere and
slightly emotionally overwrought I
actually try to keep my emotions up on
the surface in these videos and probably
if you met me in real life I would not
be as emotive as I am on camera here
that's my steez
I think the misunderstandings that I
encounter again and again with my
viewers writing into me really reflect
the the breakdown of ethical language in
Western culture in general people who
were raised the traditional Christian
childhood had at least one sort of
school of thought encoded into them for
how to talk about ethics how to talk
about ethical problems if you grew up
with a strictly communist upbringing
there also you had an ethical vocabulary
and ethical system imparted to you now
in both cases I've regard those ethical
systems as largely surreal and
regretable and full of terrible errors
and pernicious half-truths and what have
you
I'm not Pro question I'm not pro
communists I'm a nihilistic atheist in
case you hadn't guessed but be that as
it may it's often very easy to talk
about ethics with someone who has some
kind of philosophical background linked
to ethics even if it's a philosophical
background that comes out of Jesuitical
Catholicism or something
they may be able to they may just have
practice thinking in that way
debating in that way and they have terms
and categories that they can redefine to
apply to ethical problems like you know
activism ecology veganism etc and those
of us have grown up with none of those
things I think you know we very often
are dealing with people who are who are
profoundly unfamiliar with profoundly
uneasy with ethical debate period and
that's why they find what I have to say
on my channel hard to understand even
when they're they're already vegan
they're already inclined to agree you
know it's not out of hostility and not
really and what I have to say being
complex I know one example that my own
life was very striking to me I had a
boss when I was working in Thailand and
you know we did talk casually up to a
point but he stole my boss I've still
got to be respectful still that I keep a
certain kind of distance etc there's a
relationship of authority there now that
employer of mine he did regularly visit
prostitutes and you may not have guessed
this about me but I have in my life
refused to do that
and living in countries like Thailand
and Cambodia and so on you know those
were also in China and you nan you know
prostitution is ubiquitous around you
it's a huge part of the society around
you now to be blunt I really try not to
be an abrasive and judgmental [ __ ]
about that I have known people
especially people with physical
disabilities where you know I can
imagine that if they did not pay for sex
with prostitutes they would have no love
in their life they would have no contact
with the opposite sex at the same sex
whatever they were into because of the
nature of their disability and you know
I regard them as unfortunate but I can
also see that they're trapped in
circumstances that are very different
from mine and in some ways I have the
privilege of not having resources things
but that caveat having stated
this boss of mine I remember he was so
confident in his moral justification for
visiting prostitutes because he grew up
in a completely Christian mindset and he
felt that he had the Christian
categories beat you know he had this set
of justifications that could trump an
established Christian argument that he
had encountered again and again in his
life you know obviously as a teenager as
a young man and as an adult he had a lot
of practice with this and so he was he
was so confident in his moral view of
the world and of course he had he had
lost faith in Christianity as a child if
he ever had it he may have been he may
have been an atheist born but he had a
Christian upbringing and every time he
talked about those issues with me you
could just see his worldview crumbling
and because he was my boss I was very
respectful and I really used Socratic
method that's one of maybe one of the
few examples my life for Socratic method
worked of you know of asking a question
of drawing the other person out and
getting them to justify their position
not attacking them or denouncing them I
can remember I asked him simple
questions in parallelism because he had
these justifications basically why
Christian concepts of good and evil
didn't apply to that Center and you know
I asked him really simple questions like
tell me something if you and I both
write the same exam would you respect me
more or less if we get the same grade
but then I told you I paid the teacher I
paid a bribe to get that great ask him
questions like this and you know he
would get it because we were talking
about prostitution I would a man paying
for sex as opposed to someone engaging
in a relationship for what have you he
asked these questions that were getting
at substantive ethical aspects of
prostitution that he did not want to
allow to enter his view
because I mean for him you know the
reasoning was something like you know
Jesus didn't die for your sins God
doesn't exist
you know prostitution even exists in the
Old Testament which it does the Old
Testament is remarkably permissive on
prostitution um in contrast to the
Catholic Church or what have you but
what I was doing was using a completely
different language for ethical discourse
and you know revealing other aspects
that he had obviously kept his eyes
close to you know what's gonna happen
next with veganism will veganism develop
its own ethical language I hope so I
hope that we in effect trained ourselves
as a generation and prepare the way for
the next generation to think clearly in
terms of harm reduction in terms of
ecology in terms of a type of individual
and social moral responsibility and what
I hope is that veganism learns to
articulate these things that vegans
learn to articulate these things in a
way that is realistic and coherent and
compelling and convincing and does not
rely on magical thinking does not rely
on abstract ideas taken from Hinduism or
yoga or even Buddhism or what-have-you
doesn't rely on ideas taken from
Christianity anything else down-to-earth
realistic logical thinking and you know
that we learn to communicate these ideas
in a way that ultimately has to be
respected even by those who disagree
with us because at the end of the day
we're a minority and the position we're
playing for is to be a respected
minority not to be the majority not to
take over the government and run a vegan
dictatorship realistically right now all
we're scrambling for is to be a
principled minority whose views and
beliefs are respected and the way to get
there yeah it's gonna mean that we learn
to articulate ourselves much better
frankly much better than Gary Yourofsky